[Music]
30 amazing facts you never knew about
the human body we tend to think that we
know our bodies perfectly we are aware
of how they work and what kinds of
processes occur in them every second in
fact the human body is one complex and
mysterious mechanism it sometimes
confuses even the most qualified
specialists doctors and scientists here
are 30 incredible facts about the human
body that will deeply impress you we bet
you've never heard about half of them
number one a tongue print is absolutely
unique remember this when showing it to
somebody number two a single hair can
hold the weight of a hanging Apple
however scientists don't specify the
dimensions of the Apple number three the
number of bacteria in a person's mouth
is equal to the number of people living
on earth or even more for nails that are
soft and brittle with no moon could
indicate an overactive thyroid
five the speed of an incoming brain
impulse is about 400 km/h six there are
not just four different blood types as
we used to think but in fact 29 the
rarest of them belonged to the Bombay
subtype which is typical for a small
group of families in Japan seven over
the course of one day our blood runs the
distance of eleven thousand 999 miles or
19 thousand three hundred and twelve
kilometers eight men also have glands
that produce milk but its production
represents an abnormality for the male
body this can occur when too much of the
hormone prolactin is produced this might
be the result of certain kinds of
medical treatment used to stimulate the
heart problems with the pituitary gland
in hypothalamus use of opioids or due to
extreme hunger
[Music]
9 a human makes approximately 20,000
breaths per day 10 almost all people in
the world have special mites on their
eyelashes called demodex 11 a human eye
can distinguish up to 10 million
different colors but our brain can't
remember all of them 12 our ears keep on
growing throughout our lives with almost
unbelievable speed a quarter of a
millimeter per year 13 the heart beats
35 million times a year yes
35 million a year 14 every day the human
body loses about 1 million skin cells
that amounts to about 4 and a half
pounds or 2 kilos every year 15 one
square centimeter of your skin contains
around 100 pain sensors 16 this might be
very surprising to some but 26% of men
also experience PMS during these periods
a man becomes more sensitive irritable
and hungry and can even experience
stomach cramps that is he experiences
the same symptoms as a woman does
[Music]
17 the average person consumes about
77,000 pounds or 35 tons of food during
his or her life 18 a human spends about
5 years of their life blinking
fortunately we can do many other things
simultaneously 19 100,000 chemical
reactions occur every second in our
brains 20 women cry an average of 30 to
60 4 times a year and men cry just 6 to
17 times 21 smiling triggers 17 muscles
of the face while crying activates 43 so
smile more 22 a man's face preserves its
youthful appearance a lot longer than a
woman's face does this is all down to
the fact that a man's skin loses its
concentration of collagen much slower as
he ages meaning it's much more resistant
to wrinkling and sagging 23 the total
length of all the nerves in the human
body is 46 miles or 75 kilometers
twenty four boys have fewer taste buds
on the surface of their tongues than
girls do twenty-five all human beings in
the world began their existence as
females X and y chromosomes are
responsible for determining an
individual sex if two x chromosomes join
during conception a girl is produced if
X and y chromosomes join a boy appears
during the first five to six weeks the y
chromosome is inactive until it begins
to function the embryo starts to develop
into a girl 26 men can discern far few
shades of color than women can and the
reason for this is quite simple color
perception is determined by retinal cone
cells the information about them is
contained in the X chromosome and
because women have two X chromosomes the
number of cone cells they possess is
naturally twice as high as that of men
27 women blink twice as much as men also
women's hearts beat faster than men's
twenty-eight the speed of your sneeze is
100 miles per hour or 140 km/h 29 a
feeling of thirst occurs when water loss
is equal to one percent of your body
weight the loss of more than five
percent can cause fainting and more than
10 percent causes death from dehydration
and 30 the muscles which help your eyes
to focus complete around 100,000
movements a day to make your leg muscles
do the same amount of movements you
would have to walk 50 miles or 80
kilometers which fact has impressed you
the most share your thoughts in the
comments don't forget to hit the like
button below the video and click
subscribe to stay on the bright side of
life